RayTracing

You put a camera point in space and you have a screen which corresponds to what you see.

You run a line from your Camera point C with unit vector ray R through each pixel on the screen.

You will test each ray against all of the objects in the scene - and find the points at which it hits.

You want to measure the distance d from the pixel to the intersection point, and chooses the closest intersection point.

Color each point.

Imagine point P with ray R and point C with radius r which represents a sphere.

You can imagine distance d as distance from point C to line, you can calculate this with a dot product (using trig) 
and if d is less than radius r, then the ray intersects the sphere in two places which you can determine also using trig

If you choose intersection point on object and trace from it to light source, and something is in the way from it to light source
you can drop the specular and diffuse value on it, leaving only the ambient times the base color (auto shadows) (Turner Whitted discovered this)
These are shadow rays

For reflection, you can do similar thing. If something is reflecting, cast a ray out from that object to see if it hits other
objects, then if it hits the object, you add (a bit of) color from the object to the reflective surface.

You can get an index of refraction, calculate a refractive ray, and calculate a ray to the inside.

He wrote the most famous paper ever in computer graphics, where he killed the problems of shadow, reflection, and refraction. But
he solved this by just adding a ton of rays.

//ASSIGNMENT NOTES

﻿Write out a file that is the image

look at an object and write out the values

Have an origin point that is where the camera is

have an angle from which the camera looks out into the world

draw from object to camera

determine if object is in view frustrom?

for each pixel cast ray from eye through a pixel and check for intersection with an object

if intersects object calculate color by
  doing lighting calculations (cast ray to lights to check for shadow and then use lighting formula from real time rendering book)

cast rays for reflection and refraction (this is effectively recursively doing the same thing as the initial cast) which gets blending into the color bases off of object properties

start with a sphere - a point with a radius

z test

png asci grey scale

fingure out architecture 
later on can hold more shapes
thing about ability to texture 
think about transparency and translucency 

